# 1. Software Configuration

If you are using different configuration from mine, like different pin assignment or different IO Expander address, some of the compile options must be changed. Two files are involved: *config.h* and *pins.h*.

The options in config.h can be configured in "platformio.ini" as described in the following table.

| Option | Description|
|--- |--- |
|MultipleSensorEnabled|true: multiple sensors supported. Maximum to 5 sensors.|
|SupportDistilling|Distilling support.|
|SpargeHeaterSupportEnabled|Sparge Heater support.|
|SecondaryHeaterSupportEnabled|Dual heater support.|
|EnableLevelSensor|Level sensor support.|
|UsePaddleInsteadOfPumpEnabled|Use paddle instead of PUMP. The “Stir Rest” setting will be in seconds instead of minutes for pump.|

pins.h contains the hardware configuration, include buttions, IO expander, and etc. You should know what you are using before changing them. Two of these options you might need to change are


* pins.h
#define PCF8574_ADDRESS 0x20

Address of the IO Expander.

To suport level sensor, the following options should be changed to meet the hardware.
#define LevelSensorOnIoExpander true/false

//Set to true if the sensor is connected to IO Expander

#define LevelSensorPin xxx 

   or #define LevelSensorIOExpPin 32 

// the PIN of level sensor

#define SensorNormalCloseOnNotFull true/false

// set to true if the sensor is "normal-close", closed when not full.



Address of the IO Expander

#define PCF8574_ADDRESS 0x20

# **1.1.Sensor Configuration**

There are two configurations of BrewManiacEx: single sensor and multiple sensors.
It is necessary to assign and identify the sensors before use for multi-sensor configuration. For single sensor configuration this is not necessary, you can however use just one sensor in multiple sensor configuration, but sensor setup is still necessary.

*For multi-sensor configuration, the sensor setting must be configured before all other functions.*