# Customized Recipe Source
Customized Recipe Source is a feature that enables loading recipes from customized sources, which are usually but not limited to
web based recipe creation services, like brewersfriend.com and brewfather.app.
The key to enable customized recipe source is a Javascript file that loads the list and recipes. BrewManiacEx frontend gets the list and recipes via the user provided Javascript plug-in, whitch opens the door for any web services that support cross-origin resource sharing.

# The Source of recipes
The source doesn't have to be web services. For example, hard coded recipes in the Javascript surely work. However, a dynamic source like web based service makes more sense. Due to the "Same-Origin Policy" of browers, the web service must support features to provide data sharing. JSONP or CORS are the ways to go.

The detail informatoin can be found by googling "Same-Origin Policy", JSONP, and CORS(Cross Origin Resource Sharing). CORS is the critical point because most web services don't support it. If the web service you are going to use doesn't support CORS, you might need a proxy to overcome Same-Origin Policy.
(Unfortunately, HTTPS needs more memory than we left, so controllers of ESP8266 can't be the proxy. I'll see what ESP32 can do later.)

# Implementation of the customized recipe srouce Javascript plug-in

An object named CustomRecipeSource with four necessary functions must be implemented. They are
 - init(), the first function that will be called with user-provided options.
 - label(), should returns a string, for labeling.
 - list(), called to get a list of recipes. 
 - getRecipe(), called to get the recipe.

### CustomRecipeSource.init(option)
init() provides an chance to get user-input data. Usually, user credential or API Key is necessary to retrieve
data from web services. The credential data can be set in user's preference page and passed to init(). Returning a string of error message in case of error, like missing critical data.

### CustomRecipeSource.label()
label() should return a string to be displayed.


### CustomRecipeSource.list(offset,complete,fail)
list() is called to get the recipe list. Usually AJAX call is made in this function, and the reuslt is passed 
by calling `complete` or `fail`. This function is called at the first time users click the label of the Customized
recipe source. It is also called when more recipes is needed, in which case, `offset` will be none zero.


`onComplete(totalNumberOfRecipe,recipelist)` should be called to pass the data. `recipelist` is an array of objects which contains information of specific recipe. The object in the list must contains a field/attribute 
named `title` for diplaying purpose. The same recipe object will be passed to retrieve the specific recipe.

### CustomRecipeSource.getRecipe(ref,complete,fail)
`ref` is the object passed in `complete()` in `list()` call. Usually, the object contains ID, and further AJAX call can use that ID to retrive the real recipe data.
The recipe data is a `BeerRecipe` object that is basically a Javascript object representation of BeerXML. There are APIs that helps to create `BeerRecipe` obejcts.

# Functions available
## jquery
## functions help to create BeerRecipe

`BeerRecipe` object is basically a Javascript object representation of BeerXML. The structure is the same as BeerXML, and the TAG names are used as property names in capital. 
BeerXML parser is also available if the raw data is in BeerXML, which requires CORS, 

```javascript
//...
    $.ajax({
        //... parameters to get the recipe
    }).done(function(msg){
        var beerxml=new BeerXML(msg);
        complete(beerxml.recipe(0));
    }).fail(function( jqXHR, textStatus ){
        fail();
    });

```

Otherwise, constructiong of BeerXML is necessary

```javascript
function createRecipe(data){
    // first, create an BeerRecipe file
    var recipe=createDefaultBeerRecipe();
    
    // 
    recipe.NAME = data.name; // provided the name of recipe is stored as data.name
    recipe.BOIL_TIME = 75;
    recipe.STYLE.CATEGORY_NUMBER="1";
    recipe.STYLE.STYLE_LETTER="A";
    recipe.STYLE.NAME="English Pale Ale";

    recipe.addFermentable({
        NAME:"2row",
        TYPE:"Grain",
        AMOUNT:5,
        YIELD:82.0,
        COLOR:3.0
    });
    
    recipe.addFermentable({ ... });

    recipe.addHop({        
        NAME:"Cascade",
        ALPHA:5,
        AMOUNT:0.028,
        USE:"Boil",
        TIME:60});

    recipe.addHop( ... );

    recipe.addMashStep({
        NAME:"Single REST",
        TYPE:"Temperature",
        STEP_TEMP: 67.8,
        STEP_TIME:60
    });
}

```
